I think I am drawn towards nitrous oxide because it reduces the intensity and slows down rapidity of ideas in a way similar to how functionally effective medications have done for me in the past. It allows me to focus on and assemble the usual fragments of thought into more complex expression. It is very much self medication, because it seems to slow my thought and it helps me think in a more focused, linear fashion, while not being overwhelmed by emotion. Some people do drugs because it makes them feel good. This drug changes how I think. It's not that different, but in my experience, unique.

In my independent study of the few publications that exist (and I can provide a cited summary of my aggregate research of the few available studies regarding nitrous oxide injury and addiction) I have tried to help myself through knowledge. 

Every addiction is individual and needs to be treated as such, but I believe my addiction is unique. I infer this because the only meta study of nitrous oxide related presentation to ER available, over the years 2000 to 2010, in a hospital ER that averaged 168000 admittances per year, on average three patients per year were admitted for nitrous related injury. On average only one of these three per year were only-nitrous users. On average, only one of those three self-admitted nitrous use. 

I meet all three of those criteria. I took myself into treatment for nitrous oxide, because I had trouble quitting myself.  During the process I quit all substances and have abstained from the use of all other substances excluding nicotine. I realized nitrous changes the way I think and the way I manage feelings, which is interesting. However, I realize this will continue to degrade my physical health and want to cope alternatively.  After I went into treatment, a relapse neurologically crippled me through the onset of Subacute Combined Degeneration of the Spinal Cord, SCD or SCDSC.  It is a knock-down effect related to nitrous related B12 deactivation resulting in failure of the process to upkeep myelin, particularly affecting the feeling and control of the distal ends of the limbs.  My use continues to need to be managed to prevent reoccurance of similarly severe injury. Not managing my severe ADHD makes the addiction to nitrous more complex because it is a coping mechanism for not being able to think functionally, and a way to suppress negative feelings about the fact I can't manage to do things I love due to lack of attention, albeit an unhealthy cope. I need both to be managed in conjunction.

Just because I have severe ADHD doesn't mean I need a high dosage of medication, or any particular kind of medication. I prefer the opposite, the lowest effective dose combined with alternative management methodology. The fact that I have managed to make it so far while affected with my disorders and then also this addiction attests to my ability to self develop coping mechanisms.  That alone has proven not to be enough.

In my best moments, I give everything I have. I self-developed and refined my rock climbing skills to the point of instructing others professionally because I thought I would fall, and I self-developed my skills to achieve advanced, rescue, and tec diving scuba certification because I thought I'd drown.  Being risk averse while desiring as much knowledge as I can manage to gain, and learning from the experiences of individuals is where I thrive. I wish I could apply that to myself at the moment. In the past I taught myself the vocation of cybersecurity engineering to the level of attaining a postgraduate-level certification despite having only a high school diploma... But currently, I struggle to brush my teeth and cook, not because of depression or addiction, but lack of attention.  I can't be asked to drive a will to survive or cope alternatively through my hobbies and passions. I wish I had a doctor like me for me for my mental health, one who will ask good questions, collect lots of information, study, think, then propose a solution. Dr Cote does that for my physical health and is graciously supporting my leaning on him in the failure of the mental health system. I have learned to fill in some gaps for my own mental health myself. But I have also learned that I need the help of a great mental health professional as well.

When I am not at my best, I do the best I can manage. When I fail to manage, I try not to look at the end below me.  Right now, I am struggling to succeed, and fear falling back.  I am not at the end, but my endstops have been fatigued from the previous collisions. 

When I see others who have failed or are in trouble I stop to help. If I am not knowledgeable enough to see and stop, or am not well enough to recover myself after stopping, I cannot stop or help. I can't reach back to bring others alongside when I am not strong or well enough myself.

I have toproped an imperial mile of rock climbing over multiple pitches along a crack formed by a glacier in a single day, and bounce dove to 41 meters depth for 3 minutes with an NDL of 8 minutes to see a plane that was emergency landed in water and subsequently sunk, both in the state of mind where I was not only able to do it myself, but do it while ensuring the well being of others and maintaining the steps to be certain of safe successful achievement in the process. I am struggling to focus and do things at a basic level right now.  It took me seven hours to complete a mental math exam in the class I am taking that takes most students 45 minutes, but I scored a 96%.  That has always been the case with my ADHD - the effects right now are similar to when I missed my medication or could not afford to get it filled, and it seems to have gotten slightly more severe with age.

I have maintained this fail status on the support of my dog and my parents for an extended period with the hope that an appropriate doctor would help me with treatment. The opposite has happened. I am losing hope in my resources. I am shooting off flares. An airplane is seen in Dr Ray but I don't know if it has seen me and know it won't pick me up. I have enough in supplies to last till tomorrow and maybe the next day. It remains to be seen beyond that. The airplane begins a roll but it is not yet certain if it is a signal in response or a routine maneuver. It is at an altitude far above mine. I wish to get higher. The aircraft may pass before I get there, I may get injured on the way, but I need to go now. If I do not achieve higher ground, I will not be rescued.  

I understand now through my research why in my case nitrous has demonstrated addictive, analgesic, and hypotensive properties, possibly because of cited observed opioid and GABA antagonism. This may explain why I have a dependence and addiction to the substance, but I have the will to change that condition. I need assistance.  No doctor has provided me any of this information, because no one has experience with nitrous. I have independently researched and then had professionals validate my conclusions. I need a doctor who is willing to learn with me.

If you have made it this far reading, maybe you are suited to help me. If you may be, please do. I have reached the safest high point, and have one last flare for now.

Vik Shanker

I hope I do not fall. 
There are others behind me

Outside of my four family and my dwindling few friends, I would like to relay my thanks to RN Neil at Dewey for, among other things, significantly improving my ability to resist periods of self-degradation without substances. A big thanks to RN Mike at Dewey who greatly contributed to my research (and gave me some banger tunes.) I have great gifts in mind for both of them, I just don't have the budget.  Dr Longo will likely know them both. I have not met Dr., but I have seen and heard how others speak of him. I feel that PA Geoffrey Watters changed a lot for me in my go-through of PHP 2.  He didn't particularly seem to acknowledge me when I was at Dewey the second time for IOP RED, which made me kind of sad.  I've gained weight in my recovery. Maybe I wasn't recognized. It may just be his demeanor, and I'm happy to see him again all the same. He has a lot of faces to attend to.  I wish Dr Longo well and thank him for his gift of the art I meditated upon in Dewey's green space during my breaks.  I want to give gifts for the front desk and cafe staff at Dewey Center, too. They helped a huge amount. I know there are others.  Maybe one day I will be in a position to contribute a gift for all to enjoy.
